Update workflows doc121420 (#93)
plantanapp/documentation: docs/workflows.md

#### `End`

In business process modeling, every process has an ending. In BPMN, every path in every process must lead to an end event. Every process starts with a start event, moves through activities and gateways, and then reaches an end. When a business process model reaches an end event, it is complete. When a subprocess reaches an end event, the process flow returns to the parent process.

### `Difference`

> The main difference between BMPN.io and PlantAnApp Workflows is that in our platform, we create an executable model, not only the visual part (flowcharts). When you create a Workflow, you make a sequence of actions that create behind an entire model, from creating a user and giving him some platform roles to the ability to create some invoices for a purchase.

Reviewer: Second sentence reads a little confusing to me.

From a technical perspective, a Workflow can be considered a reusable method.

## `Workflows (Business logic)`

### `Scope isolation`

> A Workflow has an isolated scope which means that it will not have access to the context variables from where the workflow was executed. All the values that are required for the workflow to work need to be passed as input parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Workflow has an isolated scope, which means that it will not have access to the context variables from where the workflow was executed. All the values that are required for the workflow to work need to be passed as input parameters.
```

> Data must explicitly come in as input parameters but this concept also applies to output parameters. To set variables in the context where the workflow was executed you will have to specify explicitly what comes out as output parameters. Data can also come into the execution context of the workflow from other sources other than the input parameters. For example, `Run SQL Query` or `Server Request`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data must explicitly come in as input parameters, but this concept also applies to output parameters. To set variables in the context where the workflow was executed, you will have to specify explicitly what comes out as output parameters. Data can also come into the execution context of the workflow from sources other than the input parameters. For example, `Run SQL Query` or `Server Request`.
```

> Consider passing the variables you need via input parameters if the data is stored locally (eg: Entities) and use other actions to pull external data into the execution context. It is recommended to keep the actions inside the workflow when external data is required and not outside the workflow. Managing one workflow is easier than preparing the input variables each time before the execution of the workflow. This results in less code to maintain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the data is stored locally (e.g. Entities) the variables can be passed in using input parameters and use other actions to pull external data into the execution context. It is recommended to keep the actions inside the workflow when external data is required, and not outside the workflow. Managing one workflow is easier than preparing the input variables each time before the execution of the workflow resulting in less code to maintain.
```

### `Input Parameters`

#### `Naming Constraints`

Only Alphanumeric characters are allowed (A-Z+0-9, case insensitive), and no white spaces.

#### `Types`

There are 2 types of input parameters: **Primitive** and **Entities**.

> Primitive input parameters will restrict the variables that come in to be of the selected data type (eg: Number) or validate them to be in the right format (eg: Email). The token will contain the exact value that was passed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Primitive input parameters will restrict the variables that come in to be of the selected data type (e.g., Number) or validate them to be in the right format (e.g., Email). The token will contain the exact value that was passed.
```

> Entities input parameters need to be passed as Id's of the Entities (integers). The workflow will validate if the specified row of the entity exists. The tokens generated will contain data from that entire row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Entities' input parameters need to be passed as Id's of the Entities (integers). The workflow will validate if the specified row of the entity exists. The tokens generated will contain data from that entire row.
```

Naming Constraints

> Only Alphanumeric characters are allowed (A-Z+0-9, case insensitive), and no white spaces. You will need to specify the name of the output variable and the value of it. The values that are outputted can be either a free text or a token from inside the workflow execution context. (eg: `[Entity:Property]` or `[MyValue]`). Those values will be passed back to the context where the Workflow was executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only Alphanumeric characters are allowed (A-Z+0-9, case insensitive), and no white spaces. You will need to specify the name of the output variable and the value of it. The output values can be either a free text or a token from inside the workflow execution context. (e.g., `[Entity:Property]` or `[MyValue]`). Those values will be passed back to the context where the Workflow was executed.
```

### `Process`

#### `What Are Actions?`

> Actions are blocks of code that are packed and ready to use in a workflow. There are various actions out of the box that can interact with the stored data (Run SQL query, Read Entity), external data (Server Request), deliver messages (Send Email), business logic (Execute JavaScript (Server)), or modules themselves (Execute JavaScript and Stop Execution, Refresh Grid) They only need parameters/configurations to work and deliver business logic. Usually, actions need some input parameters based on which they will execute their specific code. Some of the actions also have output tokens, the result of the code being executed, that can be used in the next actions. This will give you the ability to create complex flows and obtain your custom business logic. When the workflow ends you can attach the output tokens from the actions to the output parameters of the workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Actions are blocks of code that are packed and ready to use in a workflow. Various actions out of the box can interact with the stored data (Run SQL query, Read Entity), external data (Server Request), deliver messages (Send Email), business logic (Execute JavaScript (Server)), or modules themselves (Execute JavaScript and Stop Execution, Refresh Grid).  They only need parameters/configurations to work and deliver business logic. Usually, actions need some input parameters based on which they will execute their specific code. Some of the actions also have output tokens, resulting from the code being executed, that can be used in the next actions. This will give you the ability to create complex flows and obtain your custom business logic. When the workflow ends, you can attach the output tokens from the actions to the workflow's output parameters.
```

#### `How to Add an Action to a Workflow`

An Action can be added from the top bar in the workflow interface using the `Add Action` button or the [Import](#importing-an-action-configuration) button.

Alternatively, you can add a new action from the small icon set next to an existing action (or start block) when it is selected. The icon for the new action is the rectangle.

> For both options, a popup will open and the list of the available actions will show. You can search on the top for a specific action or browse the list by expanding the categories. After you choose an action by clicking on it, the configuration popup will show. Click on `Save` at the bottom of the popup to save the action after you configure it. Configuring the action is not required at this point and it can be saved blank.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For both options, a popup will open and show the list of available actions. You can search on the top for a specific action or browse the list by expanding the categories. After you choose an action by clicking on it, the configuration popup will show. Click on `Save` at the bottom of the popup to save the action after you configure it. Configuring the action is not required at this point and it can be saved blank.
```

#### `How to Configure Them`

After you add an action you can click on it and a small icon set will appear on the right. The Action settings button is the wrench. By clicking it, the  settings popup will show and you may start configuring the action. When you are done, click on `Save` at the bottom of the popup to save the action.

#### `How to Access Input Parameters`

> Input parameters can be accessed as tokens directly in the actions (eg: [MyParam]). Keep in mind that the entities input parameters are expanded and you can access all the data of the entity (eg: `[MyEntityParam:Property]` or `[MyEntityParam:Id]`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Input parameters can be accessed as tokens directly in the actions (e.g., [MyParam]). Keep in mind that the entities' input parameters are expanded and you can access all the data of the entity (e.g., `[MyEntityParam:Property]` or `[MyEntityParam:Id]`)
```

#### `How to Access Other Data Through Actions or Tokens`

> Other data can be accessed with specific actions that read data from different sources. For example, you can read other entities' data based on a Server Request. This data comes into the execution context without being specified as an input parameter. Some actions that we can list in this category include `Run SQL Query`, `Server Request`, and `Read Entity`. Data also can come from Plant an App Tokens. By passing some of the input parameters to the token, for example, it can bring back HTML code that can be used in a `Generate PDF` action to obtain a PDF document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other data can be accessed with specific actions that read data from different sources. For example, you can read other entities' data based on a Server Request. This data comes into the execution context without being specified as an input parameter. Some actions in this category include `Run SQL Query`, `Server Request`, and `Read Entity`. Data also can come from Plant an App Tokens by passing some of the input parameters to the token. For example, it can bring back HTML code that can be used in a `Generate PDF` action to obtain a PDF document.
```

#### `Importing an Action Configuration`

> You may also import an already configured action into a workflow to save time. To import an action you need to locate and select the desired action and then click the `Export` button. Copy the JSON presented in the popup. Then, in the workflow in which the action will be imported, click the `Import` button. The first time you perform this action, your browser will likely ask you to allow Plant an App access to your clipboard. The notification may look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also import an already configured action into a workflow to save time. To import an action, locate and select the desired action and then click the `Export` button. Copy the JSON presented in the popup. Then, in the workflow in which the action will be imported, click the `Import` button. The first time you perform this action, your browser will likely ask you to allow Plant an App access to your clipboard. The notification may look like this:
```

<img src="/img/clipboard-access.png" alt="Clipboard Access Request" />

> If the content of the clipboard is not valid code **OR** if your browser has denied access to the clipboard, a pop-up titled `Import Actions` will appear. If access to the clipboard has been denied, the `Action or Array of Actions` box will be empty and you can paste your code into it. Otherwise, it will be populated with the invalid code text from the clipboard as seen below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the content of the clipboard is not valid code **OR** if your browser has denied access to the clipboard, a pop-up titled `Import Actions` will appear. If access to the clipboard has been denied, the `Action or Array of Actions` box will be empty and you can paste your code into it. Otherwise, it will be populated with the invalid code text from the clipboard as seen below:
```

:::note
Multiple actions can be imported individually, or, if they are in an `Execute Actions` action, then the `Import Action` will see it as a single action and you will find the other actions inside the `Execute Actions` action after import.
:::

#### `Execution Context`

The tokens available in the execution of a workflow are the input parameters and all the other output tokens that were generated from the action of the workflow.
Those tokens are available from the start of the execution of the workflow until the end. For more details read the [Execution Context](execution-context) article.

#### `Listing`

The workflow builder comes with built-in validation to keep workflow building easy and without errors. You can find the errors, if any, in the workflow builder interface at the bottom of the page or as an 'x' in a red circle near each action that has an error. Hovering over each error will describe the issue.

### `Testing workflows`

![Workflow](/img/Workflow.png)

After creating a Workflow, it can be tested using the `Test Workflow` button that looks like a play button in the right column of the workflow listing, on the line of the workflow you want to test.

> If the workflow doesn't have input parameters, when trying to test it, a pop-up will appear that warns about the workflow not having the required parameters to be executed. After this pop-up, hitting the `Run` button will execute the workflow and, at the bottom of the page, a message will appear displaying how long it took for the workflow to execute. If output parameters have been set, they will be displayed there also, with the returned values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the workflow doesn't have input parameters when trying to test it, a pop-up will appear that warns about the workflow not having the required parameters to be executed. After this pop-up, hitting the `Run` button will execute the workflow and, at the bottom of the page, a message will appear displaying how long it took for the workflow to execute. If output parameters have been set, they will be displayed there also, with the returned values.
```

If the workflow does have input parameters, the pop-up will instead contain the input parameter(s) name(s) and an empty field for each one. You have to provide values for the input parameters to run the test. Once the `Run` button is clicked and the workflow executes, it will return a success message and output parameter values, if any.

If the workflow has any error, the error message will be displayed at the bottom of the page.

### `Cloning Workflows`

> In the event there is an existing workflow that has logic close to what is needed in a new workflow, it can be duplicated and then edited to implement the new logic needed. In the main Workflow list, at the end of the row where the Workflow buttons are located, the last button (when hovered, the tooltip label is **'Duplicate'**) will immediately create a new workflow named with the name of the duplicated workflow appended with **'Copy'** (e.g. 'Send Email to User Copy'). If the same (original) workflow is duplicated again, the name will have **'Copy 2'** appended. The number will increment again as many times as the original workflow is duplicated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

A workflow can be duplicated and edited if there is an existing workflow that has logic similar to what is needed in a new workflow. In the main Workflow list, at the end of the row where the Workflow buttons are located, the last button (when hovered, the tooltip label is **'Duplicate'**) will immediately create a new workflow named with the name of the duplicated workflow appended with **'Copy'** (e.g. 'Send Email to User Copy'). If the same (original) workflow is duplicated again, the name will have **'Copy 2'** appended. The number will increment again as many times as the original workflow is duplicated.
```

Author: ```suggestion
A workflow can be duplicated and edited if there is an existing workflow that has logic similar to what is needed in a new workflow. In the main Workflow list, at the end of the row where the Workflow buttons are located, the last button (when hovered, the tooltip label is **'Duplicate'**) will immediately create a new workflow named with the name of the duplicated workflow appended with **'Copy'** (e.g. 'Send Email to User Copy'). If the same (original) workflow is duplicated again, the name will have **'Copy 2'** appended. The number will increment again as many times as the original workflow is duplicated.
```

> After duplicating a workflow, it will have exactly the same **Input Parameters**, **Process Flow**, and **Output Parameters** as the original workflow and will function the same. It should be edited to create a new process with the desired outcome and renamed appropriately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After cloning a workflow, it will have exactly the same **Input Parameters**, **Process Flow**, and **Output Parameters** as the original workflow and will function the same. It should be edited to create a new process with the desired outcome and renamed appropriately.
```

## `UI Logic`

> After you create the Workflow, you have a very powerful tool on your hands and need to integrate it in different scenarios. It can be used as an action called `Execute [Name of Workflow]` which calls it and executes the logic behind it.  Workflow actions are available on every product that supports the ability to execute an action, such as Forms, Listings, Automation, API, and Guides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you create the Workflow, you have a powerful tool on your hands and can now integrate it in different scenarios. It can be used as an action called `Execute [Name of Workflow]`, which calls it and executes its logic.  Workflow actions are available on every product that supports the ability to execute an action, such as Forms, Listings, Automation, API, and Guides.
```
